these five actors have rewarded
moviegoers with fully dimensional
characters some drawn from real life
all of them larger-than-life the
blacklisted screenwriter Dalton Trumbo
the resourceful astronaut abandoned on
Mars the vengeful frontiersman betrayed
by his companions the brilliant and
complicated co-founder of Apple and one
of the first people to undergo gender
confirmation surgery here are the
outstanding nominees for performance by
an actor in a leading role
Bryan Cranston Trumbo Matt Damon the
Martian
Leonardo DiCaprio the revenant Michael
Fassbender Steve Jobs Eddie Redmayne the
Danish boom
and the Oscar goes to Leonardo DiCaprio
and sink nomination
thank you thank you all so very much
thank you to the Academy thank you to
all of you in this room I have to
congratulate the other incredible
nominees this year for their
unbelievable performances the revenant
was a product of the tireless efforts of
an unbelievable cast and crew a lot I
got to work alongside first off to my
brother in this endeavor mr. Tom Hardy
Tom your fierce talent on the screen can
only be surpassed by your friendship off
screen - mr. Alejandro Inarritu as the
history of cinema unfolds you have
forged doorway into history these past
two years what an unbelievable talent
you are thank you to you and Chivo for
for creating a trend Cendant cinematic
experience for all of us thank you to
everybody at Fox and New Regency in
particular on Mill Shawn you were the
champion of this endeavor my entire team
I have to thank everyone from the very
onset of my career mr. Cate and Jones
for casting me in my first film mr.
Scorsese for teaching me so much about
the cinematic art form - mr. Ricky ORN
thank you for helping me navigate my way
through this industry and to my parents
none of this would be possible without
you and my friends I love you dearly you
know who you are and lastly I just want
to say this making the revenant was
about man's relationship to the natural
world a world that we collectively felt
in 2015 as the hottest year in recorded
history our production needed to move to
the southern tip of this planet just to
be able to find snow climate change is
real it is happening right now it is the
most urgent threat facing our entire
species and and we need to work
collectively together and stop
procrastinating procrastinating we need
to support leaders around the world who
do not speak for the big polluters of
the big corporations but who speak for
all of humanity for the indigenous
people of the world for the
billions and billions of underprivileged
people who will be most affected by this
for our children's children and for
those people out there whose voices have
been drowned out by the politics of
greed I thank you all for this amazing
Award tonight let us not take this
planet for granted I do not take tonight
for granted thank you so much